and we always forget that that our our
biggest supporters of all of our
institutions fundra funders of hospitals
and wings at universities and all of our
charitable organizations are the people
who really did well through a free
enterprise and they feel like they need
to give back to their community that is
the full cycle of what conservatism is
about and I don't know why we don't talk
about all of that because that to me is
a full vision I know part of what's
tearing our culture apart at the moment
our battle is about identity I'm
whatever I say I am what I say I am is
whatever I feel I am moment to moment
it's it's intrinsic to me and that's a
really pathological narcissistic and
egocentric Viewpoint and it's doomed to
failure the young people that I've been
communicating with around the world are
dying to hear a proper story about
identity and if you say to them take on
some responsibility have some
entrepreneurial daring establish a
long-term relationship get married have
children engage civically right grow up
and become part of your family your
community your state your Province your
country and and dedicate yourself to a
high-level religious view of the world
then you have an identity you're
embedded in multiple layers and that
actually constitutes psychological
stability and purpose and the
conservatives have done a very bad job
of delineating that vision for young
people but if you do they're
extraordinarily receptive
[Music]
hello everyone watching and listening on
YouTube and on the associated podcast
I'm very
um honored today to have the new premier
of Alberta speaking with me Danielle
Smith who's quite a Firebrand from the
West uh Alberta that's Canada's version
of Texas I suppose and it's the province
in Canada that's blessed or cursed
depending on how you look at it with I
think the fourth largest fossil fuel
reserves in the world which that
Province struggles continually to get to
market for reasons of idiocy that we're
going to discuss in some detail in this
podcast
Premier Smith is a newly uh newly
occupies the the Premiership role in
Alberta and is starting to put her
government in order and to use battle I
would say with the with liberals in
Ottawa and that's partly what we're
going to start talking about today about
uh the relationship between Alberta and
the federal government uh historically
and current
welcome to the conversation Premier
Smith it's it's very good to have you
here well Professor Peterson it's a
delight to talk to you thanks for having
me on today so let's talk about Trudeau
and the Liberals and what you have to
offer albertans and as a as an
alternative and Canadians for that
matter I know the conservatives in
Quebec are pretty interested in
Alberta's push for increased provincial
sovereignty uh so it's not as if you'd
only be speaking for albertans when you
talk about a more distributed
balance of powers in this country United
Country of ours I wonder if people know
how our country is has been established
compared to others because as a
confederation there's an app there's a
great deal of powers that have been
given to the the provincial order or
sub-national level of government not all
not all governments are structured that
way and I think it creates a little bit
of confusion about why we have these
battles in in Canada I think because we
have an international audience I think
walking through that would be very
useful for people as a beginning of the
conversation well I might go back to an
academic Journal because as soon as I
started talking about the Alberta
sovereignty Act of course there was a
mass freak out in the Eastern media and
so I went back to an academic paper that
had been written just after the Canada
U.S Free Trade Agreement had been had
been written in in 1993 and at that time
they said you have to be very mindful of
how you implement international trade
agreements in the Canadian context
because there is a sovereign exclusive
level of jurisdiction at the federal
level and a sovereign exclusive level of
jurisdiction at the provincial level and
they use the term sovereignty
interchangeably with autonomy it wasn't
it wasn't a provocative term back then
and that is really the appropriate way
of talking about how we are supposed to
operate as a country that I have no more
right to legislate in the federal areas
of government I can't set up military
bases I can't go out and negotiate
international trade agreements on my own
I can't sadly even manage passport
offices much as my my residence here
would probably wish I could because
they've been managed so poorly but it's
supposed to be a two-way street that
means that the federal government should
not be legislating or interfering in our
areas of jurisdiction either and they do
it all the time they pass legislation
that is unconstitutional Force us to go
to court to strike it down they are
constantly reaching in to whether it's
our Municipal level of government or our
universities or middle level management
in every single Department and trying to
get funding deals so that we end up
compromising what we want to do here in
in service of Ottawa interest and at the
same time they show massive disrespect
to us as a province and being able to
develop our our own resources so I can
tell you that albertans have had just
about enough of this and it's we've had
times in the past where we've had
conservative governments at the federal
level have been far more respectful of
our jurisdiction and our rights even
we've had liberal governments in the
past that were far more respectful of
our jurisdiction and rights the past
seven years have been a catastrophe in
our relationship with the federal
government and as a result that we have
to take some pretty dramatic steps in
order to save Confederation to get the
country working like it was originally
intended to work and that's what the
sovereignty Act is about it's telling
Ottawa stay in your own lane otherwise
we're going to put up a shield and we're
just not going to enforce any of the
laws you're trying to impose on us that
fall in our areas of jurisdiction or
that violate the charter rights and
freedoms and I've been delighted to see
that having this conversation it was
initially sort of shocking I think for
the country for Alberta to be talking
this way but if you notice Saskatchewan
recently has put forward the
Saskatchewan First Act which is very
much along the lines of what we're
proposing here so I think that we've
started a bit of a trend and I think it
is going to lead to a better country
better a better Confederation
right so for everyone listening Canada
has 10 provinces and three territories
and the provinces as Premier Smith just
pointed out have a fair degree of
autonomy and and uh and power ceded to
them so it's a distributed Confederation
and uh Alberta is one of the uh most
economically has been one of the most
economically successful provinces in
Canada for the last 30 or 40 years
primarily because of the energy industry
when it's not being cut off at the knees
by the federal government and as Premier
Smith pointed out there's a constant
battle for power depending on how
centralized the federal government is
between the federal government and
Canada and the provinces and that's
really reached ahead again
over the energy issue in Alberta so
what's happened to the energy sector in
Alberta since the Trudeau liberals took
power it's it's been devastated since
2014. and and some of that has been
technological change there was a new
type of of a development called
horizontal multi-stage tracking which
allowed for us to open up massive oil
and and gas fields and as a result the
prices ended up collapsing so that
happened just before the federal
government got elected so we were
already struggling in this province but
then as we've been trying to find our
feet find new markets we have been
stymied at every single step there are
multiple uh multi-billion dollar
transmission projects whether it's an
energy East pipeline That was supposed
to go to the Atlantic Coast or the
northern Gateway project that was
supposed to go to the western coast or
whether it's even Keystone XL That was
supposed to go to the U.S Gulf Coast
every single time that we have tried to
to find a way to get more of our
products to Market we have either had a
federal government that has actively
canceled it in the case of the northern
Gateway actively stood in the way on the
regulatory environment energy East
they'd spent a billion dollars in the
regulatory environment before pulling
the plug because they could see a way to
get to the finish line or even keys
don't Excel billion dollars President
Joe
billion dollars just in the regulatory
process and then you had the Keystone XL
pro project as well which U.S President
Joe Biden canceled within five seconds
of becoming President we didn't have a
single word of support that came from
our national government and so that has
been when you don't have takeaway
capacity now what's the point uh is the
international investors are looking and
saying what's the point in developing
new Fields if there is no place for us
to to be able to get our product to
Market and so we have seen multi-billion
dollar projects that have been canceled
there have been those I was just talking
about with oil there was a major oil
sands project in uh called the the tech
Frontier mine same story uh it would
have been a 20 billion dollar project a
billion dollars into the regulatory
approval process they couldn't see a way
to the Finish Line they pulled the plug
they've been 18 I believe different LNG
projects that have been proposed
starting around the same time so they
can find natural gas yeah well that's
the that's the liquefied natural gas
that uh the new leader of Germany came
looking for cap in hand talking to
Trudeau who said that he couldn't make a
business case for that kind of
transaction and then decided to make an
agreement with shots to ship
non-existent hydrogen from non-existent
green plants on the east coast to a
country that's desperate for energy now
you're following it very closely and and
we started talking about developing
these plans at the same time Australia
did in the same time the US did they are
well Along on that and we haven't even
really gotten to to square one and all
of that is because of federal
interference we have the ability to
develop our resources at the provincial
level so when we're talking about the
sub-national level of government we have
exclusive right to develop our resources
to develop conservation policy around
them but the federal government has the
right to to develop the pipelines that
go cross-border and they have stymied us
at every single step and that is part of
the reason we find ourselves at the
impasse that we're at today I I just
feel like there is a an absolute
hostility on the part of Justin Trudeau
and his environment Minister Stephen
gibbo towards our industry industry I
mean to talk about the ultimate slap in
the face you we when we had a a
referendum to try to talk about a better
way to share the wealth in the in the
country they take a lot of wealth out of
Alberta and don't have it go come back
our way when we had a referendum on that
the answer from the federal government
was to give us Stephen guilbeau who
earned his stripes by climbing the CN
tower to protest oil and gas development
and so if that's the answer that the
federal government gave us when we were
trying to in good faith seek a new
arrangement with the rest of the country
we know where we stand and that's part
of the reason why we've we're taking
such a strong stance and pushing back
getting a good night's sleep is one of
the most important things you can do for
your health just like your diet and
exercise routine are unique to your
body's needs so are your sleeping habits
that's why Helix sleep provides tailored
mattresses based on your unique sleep
references myself and a bunch of us here
at the daily wear have tried Helix sleep
mattresses I gotta tell you once you
switch over from your store-bought
mattress to the Helix Sleep mattress
there is no going back the Helix lineup
includes 14 mattresses each designed for
specific sleep positions and preferences
they've got side sleeper models with
memory foam layers offering optimal
pressure relief stomach and back sleeper
models feature a more responsive foam to
cradle and support your body plus Helix
mattresses offer enhanced cooling
features to keep you from overheating at
Night Don't compromise on Comfort take
the Helix sleep quiz and find your
perfect mattress in under two minutes
Helix mattress ships straight to your
door free of charge try it for 100
nights risk-free go to helixsleep.com
shorten take the Helix sleep quiz and
get up to 200 off your mattress order
plus two free pillows that's
helixsleep.com Jordan for 200 off all
mattress orders and two free pillows
so I'm curious so for those of you
listening who aren't Canadian for many
of you those who are it's the case that
there are transfer payments in Canada
from richer provinces to poorer
provinces to try to balance out the
economic status of the different regions
of the country and Alberta sends a
tremendous amount of money out of the
province and this referendum that you
were referring to I believe was one that
put I'll put the question to albertans
about whether or not they wanted
essentially they wanted to transfer
payments to continue given the hostility
of many of the recipient provinces to
the mode by which Alberta generates its
revenue and I believe albertans voted to
to uh cease offering the transfer
payments what is it have I got the story
right and what became of that all things
considered I I believe the transfer
payments are still occurring as they
were it was essentially ignored by the
federal government and we got a 62
mandate from albertans and I I think the
thing to understand is that that
albertans are very generous because
we've put up with this a
disproportionate way of of Distributing
resources for for decades if you look at
the amount of money that has come out of
our little Province to fuel the rest of
the country it's 600 billion dollars
since the 1960s and and the fact that we
haven't put put up a fuss before now is
because we realized that there was a
partnership with the rest of the country
that we would develop our resources we
would ship them to Eastern Canada
Eastern Canada would use our energy to
develop products that we would need we
would purchase them back and they broke
they've now broken that compact they
they not only do they want the dollars
to keep on flowing uh to Eastern Canada
but they want to stand in the way of us
being able to to develop more of our
resources and that's and that's part of
the reason why I think loud and clear
I'm hearing from Albert and saying you
know if that's the if that's the way you
want to operate maybe we should start
thinking regionally maybe we should
start develop flipping Partnerships with
just the Coalition of the Willing the
two adjacent provinces who share our
values maybe uh the American states
maybe going up to uh to the north to
Northern Canada maybe there isn't much
point in US continuing this relationship
where uh we have such a trade-in balance
with Quebec and Ontario if they're not
going to assist us in getting our
product to Market that's the
conversation that we're beginning now it
seems a bit much
to both have to deliver the money that's
produced by the oil and gas industry and
also to have the oil and gas industry
demonized and shut down like you can't
have both of those right you could maybe
get away with one but to get to to ask
for both is just you know it's it's
funny I used to live in Alberta it's a
long time ago now and I was I would I
would say fairly federally inclined when
I lived in Alberta I liked the idea of
Canada but as I've been out in the East
and watching what's been happening to
Alberta over the last especially the
last 10 years and Saskatchewan for that
matter I keep thinking it makes less and
less sense the array the arrangement
just makes less and less sense
especially now especially given what's
happening on the oil and gas front it's
so pathological and so why why is
Alberta still delivering the transfer
payments we don't have have much control
over that because what happens is they
over tax us at the federal level this is
sort of the the one of the flaws of our
constitutional Arrangement that we set
up is that the Federal Government Can
tax us into Oblivion and then they hoard
a pot of money and then they sort of
dribble it back to us saying oh if you
run your programs our way then we'll
transfer you some of the dollars back so
they they the real problem with the with
the way the country operates is that the
federal government is is taxing and
taking more money than they than they
need and then they're using that federal
spending power to essentially dictate to
the provinces and that's a real problem
that's part of the reason why when you
look at what Quebec has done they start
taking back more authority over their
provincial power so they um they collect
their own their own income taxes and the
reason why I think they ultimately want
to do that is one day I think they want
to move to a more European style of
system where each of the sub-national
governments collects all their own taxes
and then they pay to the central
Authority only those dollars that go to
to support the federal areas of
jurisdiction and that I think is is when
Quebec moves in that direction we need
to be prepared to move in that direction
too but I think that's the evolution of
where we're going is Quebec farther
ahead on that road than Alberta and is
your plan to to bring Alberta down that
route and and or is Saskatchewan on
board we are going to take as uh as as
much action in our areas of jurisdiction
as Quebec we want to be treated just
like Quebec and Quebec has had the the
the provincial tax collection powers for
a number of years in fact a couple of
years ago they put forward the motion
exactly as I described they said okay
now we want to be able to collect all
taxes and we'll just remit to Ottawa our
share and even the conservatives
supported that motion so they're very
close I think if there's a change of
government at the federal level they're
very close I think to being able to to
get that kind of arrangement and we
don't want to be left behind we want
exactly the same the same treatment what
stands in your way at the moment in in
in Practical terms in implementing that
why not
is there reasons not to just move ahead
with it I mean it does seem to me to be
that it's time for push to come to shove
in Alberta and Canada because things are
so absurd on the energy front and
Alberta is fighting for its life
economic life in many ways I can't
imagine that any any investors with any
sense are going to have the kind of
confidence that's necessary to invest in
major oil and gas exploration projects
given the absolute uncertainty with
regards to delivery and and to spend you
you pointed out that in two different
projects two billion dollars had been
spent merely on trying to overcome
regulatory hurdles before anything of
any practical significance whatsoever
was brought it's no bloody Wonder true
it could make a business case for liquid
natural gas for shots when his policies
had made it bloody impossible for the
entire country to produce enough oil and
gas to ship to our allies in Europe
let's say even when they're freezing in
the dark completely and this is the the
fundamental problem we have in Canada is
that the the power of trade and commerce
was given to our federal level of
government with the idea that provinces
might be scrapping over jurisdiction and
might be wanting to block each other's
products and so the federal government
was given that power so that they could
streamline the process to make sure that
we could get our products to Market
they're using it in an offensive way
they're using it to block access for our
products to get to Market so my view of
it is this that we were prepared to work
collaboratively with the federal
government taking the lead and now we're
going to take the lead and what that
looks like and I I just recently wrote a
letter to Scott Moe the premier of
Saskatchewan and Heather stefans of the
premier of Manitoba because if we could
get an economic trade route along our
Northern Territories between our three
provinces we can get access to a port
that will allow us to export our
products internationally and so I I
propose that we meet in Churchill which
is the foundation for report that that
might be able to begin that that process
and but that's not the only one I mean
we could and I'll tell you the
difference on this because the the issue
that we have right now is we've been
making our proponents of a pipeline
fight every little battle on their own
so they propose the route then they have
to negotiate with every single landowner
they have to negotiate with every single
municipality they have to negotiate with
the different levels of government they
have to negotiate the federal government
then they have to go through court and
there's First Nations and then on top of
that you can have a court process that
throws the whole thing out so if we
reverse that process and said you know
what we're going to do the work in
advance uh Alberta saskatchew Manitoba
we're going to get together and we're
going to identify the corridor we're
going to work with our first nations in
Maine T to make them equal Partners in
ownership we're going to address the
environmental issues of caribou habitat
and other endangered species we're going
to make sure that we're avoiding the
areas that are archaeologically or
ceremonially significant for our first
Nations communities and once this
Corridor is built then we'll invite the
proponent to come in because then we
will have done our work of clearing away
all those hurdles and be able to reduce
those billions of dollars in regulatory
costs and that's a scrap that I'm
willing to have with the federal
government this is their work and they
have failed to do this we've been asking
for them to do this since the 1930s
we've got a fantastic relationship with
our first Nations communities of which a
hundred of them are oil and gas
producers themselves they want to get
their product to Market too and so I
believe if it comes down to it and the
federal government tells us wait a
minute you're invading our jurisdiction
I'll just say look we've got the right
to develop our resources conserve them
get to them to Market our first Nations
under the U.N Declaration of the rights
of indigenous people they have the right
to be able to develop their resources
too and I think that we'll win that
scrap if it goes to the to the court but
I think we have to start taking the lead
stop acting like a junior player start
acting like a senior partner and get
some of these built
in today's world we sometimes lose sight
of the judeo-christian beliefs that
built our society this is why it is so
important to study scripture and develop
a dedicated prayer life there's no
better way to do that than with hallow
hallow is the number one Christian
Prayer app in the U.S and the number one
Catholic app in the world it's filled
with studies meditations and Reflections
including the number one Christian
podcast the Bible in a year download
Hollow today and try their Advent pray
25 challenge a 25-day journey through
Bible stories from both the Old and New
Testament leading up to the birth of
Jesus these meditations are led by cast
members from the largest Christian
streaming Series in history The Chosen
Advent pray 25 will help grow your
understanding of mankind and develop a
disciplined prayer habit during a season
when our discipline is put to the test
download Halo for three months
completely free and experience a
personal development that can come from
regular prayer meditation and reflection
on who the Bible calls us to be get
hallow for free at hallow.com Jordan
it's hallow.com Jordan give yourself the
gift of Peace calm and discipline this
Christmas go to hallow.com Jordan today
yeah well for everyone watching and
listening Alberta is a landlocked
province that provinces in Canada are
stacked up from east to west and so the
province to the west of Alberta is
British Columbia and they have a huge
Coast but British Columbia tends to vote
more left and socialist and it's been
very difficult again stop me if I'm
speaking out of turn here but it's been
very difficult over many decades for
Alberta to negotiate with British
Columbia to get its products out to the
West Coast and so that's a big problem
but is Churchill is the Hudson Bay
because the Hudson Bay is is the
coastline of Manitoba it's it's with
it's in the center of Canada is is is
the coastline
are the ports in Manitoba
suitable for for export use for these
sorts of projects I have a number of
technical experts who have been working
on developing different proposals and my
understanding is the answer to that is
yes the uh there is also a port a little
bit further south that I think is open
and Ice free
um more more months year round but look
at look at Russia I mean Russia is not
uh they're not saying oh there's some
ice in the way we can't build there they
said oh there's ice in the way let's get
47 icebreakers and to me if if we we
have the technology to be able to keep
these ports cleared year-round we just
have to have the political will to work
together on on getting the work done and
in the past maybe it's because you have
a if you have to deal with multiple
jurisdictions there's election cycles
and it becomes difficult I think we were
also holding out hope that some some
sense of sweet reason might might just
set in at the federal level yeah well
you can forget it it appears no I mean
that's not even in this environment
where we are facing because of the
Russian invasion of Ukraine were facing
massive disruption in our supply chains
massive disruption in our ability to get
a secure supply of energy massive
disruption in affordability for for our
citizens all around the world great
fears about what might happen in winter
and Germany if we don't fill this Gap if
if reason hasn't set in with that as a
backdrop then we owe it to the world to
take the lead in making sure that we
provide energy security as well as
energy affordability and we can't wait
for the for the federal government to
negotiate on this this on our behalf
yeah well that could it sounds like that
could be a real Boon to the people of
Manitoba too I mean Manitoba is often a
kind of economically underpowered
Province there's not that many people
there but a thriving Port industry there
seems like just the ticket for Manitoba
it'd be lovely to see Alberta
Saskatchewan and Manitoba form a
coalition that had the kind of political
power and population that could serve as
a buttress against the centralists and
and the people people in the East who
think they don't need oil and gas or
energy except they still want the money
from the West which I still that it's so
appalling that attitude that it's almost
Indescribable well let me add a layer to
that too because when I spoke with
Premier steffensen I'd asked her if they
had ever scoped out what it would look
like to build transmission lines back to
Alberta so that we could have a
non-emission non-carbon dioxide
emissions fuel in the form of
hydroelectric power coming to fuel our
oil sense development and I gather
they've never really even considered
that but that's the kind of win-win that
we're looking for because the other part
too is that as our our bitumen becomes
more valuable it gets put on rail cars
because we can't put it into pipelines
when you put it on rail cars now you're
crowding out all of our grain producers
and so we need to not only build
pipelines for oil for gas we could build
transmission lines we can also look at
building new highway new rail line and
that's when you start getting a full
service Corridor that's the kind a
proposal that our first Nations
communities have told us that they want
to see so that we can start building out
some of our Northern Territories as well
but this notion as well that if we can
bring in some lower emissions
electricity and power to be able to
develop our resources then then what in
the world would would Stephen Gibble and
Justin Trudeau have to complain about
that's the vision that our oil sense
producers have incidentally they they
don't the green types they don't even
support nuclear power they don't support
liquid natural gas the the fact that
America Americans used fracking allowed
the U.S to cut its carbon dioxide
emissions 15 from 2000 to 2015 or think
it was 12 they're the only
industrialized country that has done
that and they did it because of fracking
and the greens opposed fracking and they
oppose nuclear and so looking for logic
in that Rat's Nest of of of what would
you say utopian moralizing is absolutely
pointless and you you pointed out
something very main I think is that
given the severity of the energy crisis
that's confronting Europe
if that in and of itself isn't enough to
wake up the people who are putting the
brakes on nuclear power and on liquid
natural gas development then nothing
short of mass starvation is going to
wake them up and probably not even that
and so it does look to me like the time
the iron is hot and it's time to strike
it and the West could not only I think
could the West do an excellent job of
this Saskatchewan Manitoba and Alberta
but I think that that Triad of provinces
would find tremendous amount of
international support for doing so and
that's another that's another thing that
might be worth considering on the
Strategic front is to be looking for
allies in Europe and in the UK and in
the United States that would put their
full weight behind such projects and
those people definitely exist and we do
absolutely need to do that I want to
talk just for a minute if I could about
this environmental piece because I I
think that this is the problem is that
the extinction Rebellion types you know
the ones who are gluing themselves to to
sidewalks and the top of subway cars and
the headquarters of buildings I have no
idea why anyone is giving them any air
time whatsoever that is an extremist
group that I do not think represents the
the genuine concern that that more
moderate environmentalists have about
the challenges that we face I'm looking
at someone like Michael schellenberger
who has has immersed as such a
reasonable voice on the environment he's
very concerned about emissions and I get
that but he also has realized that we
are not going to address issues of
emissions and environmental
harms by focusing on wind and solar and
battery power and I think he's done some
brilliant work on this because we and
also I might also give a shout out to
Michael Moore with his planet of the
humans documentary that kind of blew it
all wide open where we now be have begun
to have a conversation that guess what
you cannot produce a wind turbine with a
wind turbine because there's a lot of
steel that comes from coal and there's a
lot of fiberglass that also comes from
fossil fuels and you have to transport
1500 truckloads to get it to a site
using fossil fuels and so until you have
a situation where you've got solar and
concrete and and transportation fuels
and fiberglass that are emissions free
those are not those are not
emissions-free sources of production and
besides that they're intermittent so
because they're intermittent you have to
build three times as many of them and
when you have to build three times as
many of them you're eating up a lot of
landscape and when you're eating up a
lot of landscape and putting these
turbines up well now you're also putting
if they're in the path of migratory
Birds you're killing birds and bats and
why aren't we talking about all of the
environmental impacts that come from
that so that we can have a fulsome
discussion this is the thing that well
look I think part of the reason is is
that people are looking for easy moral
virtue you know and so it's easy to be
virtuous by having a messy life and
saving the planet and then it's simplest
to save the planet by concentrating on
one thing and then it's simplest to
concentrate on carbon dioxide as if
that's the only environmental challenge
that confronts us and so you have this
overweening prideful and ignorant
requirement to put yourself forward as
some kind of planetary savior you reduce
the complexity of that problem to
opposing carbon and then if you can
stick it to the rich just as an
additional benefit to your Envy so so
much the better no one wants to talk
like Bjorn lomberg talks about the
multi-dimensional environmental
challenges that confront us about rank
ordering them in some kind of
economically intelligent way you know in
in in in treating the challenges that
confront us like adults might do it
instead of like Greta thundberg might do
it and I think the treatment that's been
handed out to her is exactly emblematic
of the whole problem she's a
um relatively eccentric 13 year old girl
she doesn't know anything about how the
world works and yet green leaders around
the world count how to her like she's
some sort of
dionysian prophetess and that's a real
indictment of the situation that we find
ourselves in you know that but but I
think we have to do though um is that
we've got to elevate the voices that are
aligned with us voices like Bjorn
lomberg and voices like Michael
schellenberger because this notion of
energy density is is is really the key
to being able to reduce the impact on
the planet and there when you and this
is why uh schellenberger is a supporter
not only of nuclear and small modular
nuclear reactors are becoming
increasingly of interest to different
jurisdictions but also he's a supporter
of of LNG because you can have a smaller
footprint in developing those and when
you have a smaller footprint you're
going to have just by definition less
impact on the environment and that to me
I think what I what I worry about in
them and I call myself a Libertarian
conservative maybe we'll get into what
that actually means but what I worry
about in on our side of the spectrum is
that we only talk in dollars and cents
and we try and we don't address this
environment mental peace this is the
emotional piece that everybody cares
about I mean I was born in 71. the first
Earth day was 1970. so I I grew up
surrounded by that environmental
messaging and I think we have seeded the
ground to the extremists like the like
Extinction rebellion and we haven't
elevated the more moderate environmental
voices and and that to me is is going to
be my big challenge is that I want
people to understand that yes we can
provide energy security yes we can
address issues affordability and we can
do it in a way that is going to be the
most environmentally responsible Bar
None looking at all of the other options
and all of the other producers around
the world that is going to be I think
our big communication challenge but I
think that that's that's the way that we
start building those allies that you're
talking about in Europe yeah well it
would be it would be great for
conservatives in Canada and I would say
across the world to reach out to people
like Schoenberger and laurenburg perhaps
above all else because they have
extraordinarily well thought out
arguments on the environmental front
and also our astute economically and so
and that's a rare combination and the
the conservatives have aired
tremendously on the central liberals as
well the middle of the road liberals by
letting the radicals take the moral
upper hand on the environment front and
their story you know you look at what's
going to happen in Europe and around the
world likely this winter as we put
tremendous stress on poor people by
jacking up energy and food prices is all
that's going to be disastrous for the
planet in in the terms that the
environmentalists themselves
hypothetically hold dear the idea that
we can make the planet more habitable on
an environmental on the environmental
front by impoverishing poor people by
raising Energy prices and food prices is
absolutely it's not only
um absurd logically but I I think it's
tantamount to genocidal in its attempt
intent it's really appalling it's it's
it creates grave danger for those who
are on fixed income I'm going into an
environment especially in our Northern
climates January February March April
it's it's dangerous not to have a
reliable power not to be able to have
reliable Home Heating and we have to be
mindful that as you say the people most
impacted by that are the ones at the
lower end of the income scale and so if
you are forcing a senior citizen to make
a choice of reducing their food bill or
reducing their Pharmaceuticals that they
can keep their electricity and their
heating on those are not decisions that
any government should be forcing are
that they're people to make but that's
the decision that is that this this is
logically where the the policies of
those on the extreme green left have led
to is that they have they are now
sacrificing those at the lower end of
the income scale which they they put
their heart on the sleeve and they say
that that's who they care about but it
is is just a demonstrably untrue when
you see the impact of it and I'll add
one more to it the only people that I
have heard talk about uh the plight of
those who are living in countries that
do not not have reliable energy and the
impoverishment that occurs from that are
some of the energy Executives that are
at our Global conferences this is part
of the reason why we need to get
reliable natural gas around the world
because when you look at some of the
most impoverished countries in the world
they're using wood and dung and coal to
heat their their homes I I talked to
somebody a researcher in British
Columbia who said we have 44 million
deaths per year because of indoor air
quality problems
and so why why has that not elevated as
an issue that we know we can solve by
having these secure types of energy the
LNG is going to be a solution and
specifically that's a great question if
there were if there were 5 000 deaths
from nuclear power a year which there
aren't the Legacy press and the
left-wing liberal types would be all
over that like mad but the fact that
there are 40 million people are
thereabouts a year who die from indoor
pollution from using substandard fuels
which by the way are not environmentally
friendly in the broader sense either
that just goes under the radar
completely and so you you look at you
look at facts like that and that's a
bloody blatant fact that one and and
it's children that are
disproportionately affected on that
front too and then you also look at the
willingness of the so-called leftists
who are hypothetically in favor of the
poor to impoverish the poor as a
consequence of their non-effective green
policies and you really have to ask well
just what the hell is driving this and
the only answer that I can think of is
that it's something fundamentally
predicated on envy and that the desire
to bring down the capitalist system that
produces those who are richer than the
typical environmentalist let's say that
takes precedence over everything it
takes precedence over care for the poor
it takes precedence even over
hypothetical care for the planet it's
like tear the bloody capitalist system
down and it doesn't matter what or who
gets destroyed in the process because
otherwise how do you explain it like the
the the indoor air pollution fact alone
it's like that's incomprehensible
obviously the thing to do is to get
cheap energy that's clean as clean as
possible to developing countries as fast
as possible and then you know on the
environmental side the stats are pretty
damn clear that if you can get the gross
domestic product of a country up to
something averaging approximately five
thousand dollars U.S a year then people
start taking a Long View and caring
about the environment and so it's quite
obvious that if we did everything we
could to eradicate absolute poverty
mostly by driving Energy prices down
then we could get people off of their
Reliance on those primitive biofuels
that poison them and poisoned the planet
and Denude the territory and we could
get them caring about the environment
and so
why not do that okay now do you want to
become premier of Alberta because this
is exactly the points that I I want to
see me on the international stage and I
don't know why it's so hard to get these
messages out it does seem and maybe it
is that we're facing something that is
is more of a culture War underneath the
surface that we think it's about
dissolving environmental issues and we
think it's about caring for those who
are more who are vulnerable and we think
it's about obliterating International
poverty and it's not it's about it's
about something else altogether and I
would say I need to be very very clear
because I know the world keeps on
talking about some transition to some
other fuel that might someday exist in
the future and I I'm I'm going to tell
you that our our messaging here is going
to be very very different we are not
going to transition out of oil or
natural gas we're going to transition
away from emissions we're going to
produce these products in a way that has
lower and lower emissions and we've got
great technology to be able to do it
we're learning how to capture CO2 and to
embed it into products to make them more
durable or bury them underground we're
talking about developing out our
hydrogen economy LNG is going to be one
way that we're able to reduce more
polluting fuels around the world and
reduce Global emissions but when you
start doing all of these things you one
of the things I don't think is well
understood is that out of a barrel of
oil comes about 6 000 different products
and not all of them are combustion about
70 of them aren't we've got lubricants
and Plastics and building material
asphalt so even the the enthusiasts of
zero emission Vehicles they're going to
need roads to drive them on which means
that we are going to need to produce
bitumen and if we can produce bitumen
with lower and lower emissions then this
is a this is a win for everybody this is
a win for the environment it's a win for
the economy it's a win for affordability
it's even a win for the
environmentalists so they don't realize
this and so we need to get away from any
notion that these fuels are going to be
kept in the ground I think what it is is
ludicrous to talk about phasing out oil
and natural gas as it is ludicrous to
talk about phasing out concrete as we're
phasing out steel we are we are
increasingly using our our base products
for construction materials for Plastics
and we are always going to need to have
those and as Michael shellenberger has
pointed out again quite brilliantly is
that when you start using these types of
alternative construction materials it
means that you don't need to go to the
natural environment to be able to to
harvest them there and so you're able to
preserve more habitat you're able to
preserve more of the environment we just
need a paradigm shift in how we talk
about the environment
Shopify makes it simple to sell to
anyone from anywhere
whether you're selling succulents or
stilettos start selling with Shopify and
join the platform simplifying Commerce
for millions of businesses worldwide
with Shopify you'll customize your
online store to your brand discover new
customers and build the relationships
that will keep them coming back
Shopify covers all the sales channels to
successfully grow your business from an
in-person POS system to an all-in-one
e-commerce platform even across social
media platforms like Tick Tock Facebook
and Instagram thanks to 24 7 support and
free on-demand business courses Shopify
is here to help you succeed every step
of the way it's how every minute new
sellers around the world make their
first sale with Shopify and you can too
sign up for a free trial at shopify.com
jbp go to shopify.com jbp to start
selling online today that's shopify.com
jbp
[Music]
you you said you don't necessarily think
that what's going on is about the kind
of micro issues that you just described
and I think that's absolutely true you
know I've been working with
conservatives internationally and
centralist liberals too on the
construction of something like uh more
profound underlying traditionalist
narrative and I think what's happened
too is the conservatives
the traditionalist and the and the
Liberals increasingly have been set back
on their Heels by the increasingly
strident moralistic claims of the
radical leftists and haven't really been
able to respond to that properly and
have been in some sense
um
what would you say the victims of their
own guilt
you know because the thing about
conservative types is that they tend to
be conscientious and so if you go after
them for not doing their Duty they tend
to take that quite seriously and so when
the left levees on accusations of less
than dutiful Behavior against
conservatives the first thing the
conservatives do is get guilty it's like
well we probably could pollute a little
less more we could be a little less
sexist we could be a little less racist
we're sorry it's like it's time to stop
being sorry it really is on the
conservative front to say look your
bloody policies are not only raising
Energy prices to levels that are
absolutely unconscionable but certainly
dooming a large percentage of the
population in the world and in the
western world as well to undo poverty
and privation and you're not doing a
damn thing on the planetary front in
fact you're making the situation worse
and so we've had enough of your cheap
moralizing we're going to go ahead with
what the adults do which is to deal with
the world as it is you know I got some
stats from Bjorn lomberg recently I just
wrote a an article for the telegraph uh
that's quite popular about a delusional
genocidal globalists and their
willingness to sacrifice the poor and
Lombard pointed out that the
International Energy agency and the
Biden government have both
projected that we won't be at a hundred
percent renewable energy till at least
22.40.
right not 20 35 or 2050 that'll still be
at best at something like 20 percent
assuming everything that's planned works
out which it won't
and so that the idea that we're going to
somehow transition to these magical
technologies that are just going to
suddenly appear is absolutely
Preposterous even when you don't take
into account the facts that you laid out
which is we make all sorts of other
things from oil and so what are we going
to do stop making them it's like well
maybe because you don't need those if
you're going to decrease your carbon
load you know I mean we're never going
to get to 100 renewable I may as well I
may as well just put that on the table
because when you think about what you
need to get to 100 renewable especially
if you're talking about battery power to
back it up where are we going to get the
lithium and the Cobalt and the nickel
you have to mine the the the surfaces in
order to do that but the
environmentalists are opposed to mining
as well every time you try to get a
mining operation going you've got a wall
and an army of of environmentalists
trying to stop you there also the you
have to move a lot of Earth in order to
be able to develop the the all of those
resources to be able to feed the battery
power and you have to use a lot of
landscape in order to put on the solar
panels in the in the winter by I think
laurenburg has estimated that there is
something under 10 minutes of battery
power sufficient battery power in Europe
to power the European power grid at the
moment something like I think it's
actually three minutes it's somewhere
between three and ten minutes and all
the vaunted improvements in Battery
Technology that we're supposed to be
zipping along like mad by now haven't
manifested themselves and so that's
that's a non-starter as well well let me
tell you what I think the future is
honestly and I think Canada is well on
its way in in helping to develop this
future I think hydroelectric power is
the future I think nuclear is the future
a particularly small modular nuclear
reactors which we're going to be rolling
out in Ontario no Brunswick very shortly
and then on top of that using developing
natural gas and using carbon technology
to capture the emissions so that you're
not putting anything into the atmosphere
that those to me are the and perhaps
even geothermal we have to be looking at
ways that you can get secure reliable
base load that doesn't have a huge
external impact on the environment on
across the whole range of environmental
impacts and I think we have to get away
from this idea that that solar and wind
are the only answer it's sort of
interesting you said that um that
there's this this Envy or this hostility
to capitalism I see it I see it a little
differently I feel like those on the
other side of the spectrum have their
own favorite capitalists that they like
to support and because I mean like
foreign
subsidies that go to wind and solar
panels as a solar power as well and so I
I think really that's what we're seeing
is that there's a multi-trillion dollar
market at play here and that we've got
we've got two different interests that
are lining up and one of those interests
on the other side is also seeking to
have a huge amount of government support
for it and I tend to believe be believe
in free enterprise if something is is
going to be supported it should be able
to be supported on the basis of the
market that it's the best use of the
resources the lowest cost delivering the
best best product for the lowest price
that that is how we're supposed to be
operating if we're if we're going to be
operating from a position of crony
capitalism where you just have to get
your guy elected and then you can secure
a bunch of of Grants so that you can
push your agenda for it that that's I
think what has been has been has been
driving things for the last 10 or 20
years yeah well I also think that's
that's another undiscovered area for
genuine tradition analysts conservatives
and liberals alike to start making
Headway on the moral front is that a
little less crony capitalism would be a
good thing because crony capitalism is
really fascism to give it its proper
terminology and this collusion between
huge industry and huge government that's
got to stop it's it's not the free
enterprise Market that that that that
properly responds to transformations of
demand and Supply it's it's top down
collusion and it's aided and abetted by
very large players and that's really
gone out of hand as well I think the
conservatives would do well to address
that as much as they possibly can you're
very right you talked about small
nuclear modular reactors what's
happening on on the Canadian front in
relationship to that what do you see as
promising well we we have an expert in
nuclear development in Ontario the uh
the Ontario Market is power at 60 on
their power grid by nuclear and so they
are looking at ways of bringing these
these smaller units I think in the and
some as low as 15 megawatts some in the
in the 50 to 200 megawatt range and this
is proven technology I mean if you look
at nuclear submarines we've managed to
find a way very safely to have men and
men and women uh in in nuclear
submarines powered by by this kind of
small-scale technology so now it's a
matter of going through the regulatory
process getting it approved getting it
implemented proving it out so that we
can get it so we can get it into other
markets so in New Brunswick my
understanding is they're rolling out one
of these very small ones under 15
megawatts by 2026 and at the DAR in
Darlington in Ontario they're rolling
out a small one in 2028 and so once that
begins there's no reason why our oil
sense producers wouldn't be able to to
use that technology to develop to
develop their products and that also
then will reduce the overall emissions
of our energy sector so those are the
things that we're watching but of course
the federal government stands in the way
even on these promising Technologies
they stand in the way of allowing those
to go through a streamlined regular
military approval and it's because again
we have an environment Minister who
takes this Paradigm view that the only
way that we can develop electricity is
to to use the the sources that that he
thinks we ought to use and that excludes
natural gas and that excludes nuclear so
that's another big battle coming up
because I I think that Canada will be
able to to export that to the world and
also reduce overall Global emissions if
we can just get our policies right I
should say incidentally Europe is
already there Europe has already allowed
allows for green bonds to be issued for
nuclear developments as well as for
natural gas developments with a carbon a
carbon capture a component to it it's
it's Canada who has also an advantage in
developing these types of energy sources
that our federal government is standing
in the way and so I think that gives us
some common cause with our friends in
the rest of the country particularly
Ontario and making that argument more
broadly
so what's happening on the political
front
in Alberta at the moment when's the next
election how are the conservatives doing
in Alberta
um how are you how are you negotiating
with your primary opponents which is the
Socialist the NDP and Alberta
um and what what does what does the what
does the political Horizon look like for
you
at the moment in Alberta we had a change
in leadership because obviously we had
some internal conflict in our in our
party around some of the issues that
we've been talking about are we are we
are we getting our our fight out to
Ottawa enough I think some of our our
supporters were feeling that that we we
weren't uh fighting Ottawa enough on our
areas of jurisdiction we weren't getting
progress on being able to get our energy
to Market we weren't getting progress on
changing the the uh the the transfer
program in our country and also on
issues of Liberty that that our
government didn't didn't do a good
enough job of standing up for freedoms
and so we have a some repair work to do
with our conservative movement to stitch
it back together conservatives
leadership race is help in that regard
because it gets everybody out there
talking and meeting with people and
making apologies where apologies need to
be made so I feel like our movement is
pretty unified but we are facing a very
tough competitor in in the NDP they they
have have cemented themselves as this as
the aggressive vote and they have been
polling strongly ever since they left
government last time around so I don't
want to take take it for granted but I I
think these are the issues that are
going to turn the election that is as
much as the NDP and all of the Socialist
parties like to to act as as though
they're they're looking over the middle
class they are not they used to be a
party that looked out for the little guy
now they want to maintain the elite
institutions and the elite structures
that we have which only benefit those at
the very top and also benefit those who
are in decision-making roles in the in
the bureaucracy and it it hurts the
little person I mean when you have our
government talking about a 300 percent
increase in the carbon tax at the
federal level and the the provincial the
provincial opposition leader is walking
100 behind that and then trying to do
videos about how much she cares about
affordability it's it's baffling you
can't do that it's impossible you can't
say we're going to increase the cost of
all of your energy used by 300 percent
but my goodness what happened why is
food going up in price why is
electricity and and Home Heating going
up in price why is gasoline and Diesel
going up in price you have no
credibility the only way you have
credibility is you say remove the retail
carbon tax to give people a break while
we're going through this inflation
crisis so I think that that's going to
be one of the big points of difference
between us and the guys on the other
side is I think they are revealing that
um they aren't who everybody thought
they were and and this is why we have to
show our heart a lot more conservatives
sadly when conservatives often when we
run campaigns we often talk about how
much we're going to cut and we're going
to reduce taxes and anybody who relies
on a government service whether it's
health care or education or
post-secondary or Children's Services or
social services they think are you
cutting the things that that I need to
be able to survive and so we we have to
develop a different philosophy of
government so that way as much of a
vision you know but it is One Vision
that conservatives can offer which I
think is pretty damn straightforward is
um cheap plentiful relatively clean
energy for everyone because everyone
obviously everyone knows if they have an
iota of political or economic sense that
energy costs Drive everything they drive
their transportation they drive their
food costs they drive their heating
costs and the best thing you can
possibly do for poor people over any
reasonable span of time is to drive
energy costs down to the lowest possible
level
and so and that's a great example of
combating the moralism of the left it's
like you guys you've already shown your
colors you're perfectly willing to
sacrifice the poor to not save the
planet it's a very bad strategy I think
the NDP is weak on the federal front too
because maybe you can clue me in on this
a bit I do not understand jagmeet Singh
so here here's here's a proposition for
you so this is a man who wants to run
for the leadership of the country in
principle and uh he essentially
established a coalition government with
the Judo liberals who wouldn't be able
to hold on to power without them and he
didn't even negotiate to get a cabinet
seat even though what he produced was
essentially a coalition so you have a
man who is so unable to govern that he
couldn't even get himself a seat at the
table for the price of selling his soul
to the Liberals and he's the leader of
the Socialists in Canada now can you
explain any of that to me I for the life
of me I can't understand what the hell
is motivating him and I don't and I
cannot understand what that means for
the Socialists and the NDP I think that
there is a there's a story that the
Socialists tell themselves that the last
time they were most effective in getting
their agenda passed was when there was a
minority liberal government and they
they had the balance of power I think
that's when the pension came in or
there's there's certain things that they
believe that they take credit for
because they form the balance of power
at that time so I think they believe
it's enough to just have that threat of
being able to call an election at any
time I think it's even worse for my
opponent Rachel notley because as you
know since you were NDP politics you
don't actually buy a membership in the
federal NDP you buy a membership in the
provincial NDP which gives you your
membership in the federal NDP they're
per they're embedded and I don't know
how on and the world she's going to run
a campaign saying yeah my Federal leader
is in this partnership with Justin
Trudeau and both of them are taking
actions that are damaging Alberta I
don't think that's a very strong
position for her to be in so I I'm sort
of mystified about why she's walking in
lockstep and supporting that agenda
which is stopping our development at
that agenda which is raising the the
price of everything so I I don't pretend
to understand the the world of socialism
the one thing I do understand is that I
think that there is this is probably the
most left-wing liberal government we
have ever had and so maybe they should
have a formal Coalition I we I got
accustomed to seeing more moderate
liberals um in in those positions in the
past like genre Chen and Paul Martin
which ran balanced budgets and surpluses
and helped to develop the economy I mean
liberal who wants us to do well so they
can steal our wealth is it is a is a
liberal government I can understand like
let's scrap over who gets to to the
benefit of the wealth creation a liberal
who wants to destroy wealth creation and
then think that you can have phony
wealth creation by printing money is is
somebody who I I simply don't understand
but that might explain why the two of
them are actually more in lockstep than
than you might have thought is because I
think foundationally they just believe
in central government planning central
government decision making Central
bureaucrats making all of the decisions
printing money and everything will be
fine I just don't I think they have a
foundational
um hostility towards free enterprise
[Music]
and an economy as volatile as this one
it's important to have control when
you're making a big purchase like a new
car that's where Cars Inc comes into
play cardzing is completely changing the
way you buy a car online by partnering
with Credit Agencies lenders and
dealerships carsync provides you with
everything you need before stepping foot
into a dealership they make auto
financing quick and easy while providing
a modern hassle-free way of shopping for
cars carzing's Innovative technology and
financial tools provide consumers with
the ability to instantly pre-qualify
online without affecting your credit
score plus you can search for vehicles
with instant financing details including
down payment monthly payment term and
APR once you find your dream car at your
ideal budget all you have to do is bring
your save deal voucher with you to the
dealership to finalize your next ride
used car prices are coming down which
means you can expect great deals this
holiday season even if you're not in the
market for a car check out carzing.com
Jordan and research deals near you
that's carzing.com Jordan
if the Liberals are already doing that
why the hell have an NDP at all
completely and I mean that's got to be
the question that's on the on the minds
of thoughtful Canadians I I would
presume when they're looking at the
current situation is that if the liberal
government is so aligned with the NDP
that it isn't even useful for the NDP to
oppose them which seems to be the case
and to really require no commitment from
the Liberals for doing so then the
party's Superfluous and you saw what
happened in the Ontario election I mean
the NDP got obliterated and I think
that's a big part of the reason and I
don't know how Rachel notley is going to
justify her alliance with Singh given
precisely what you said and it's
especially the case when as far as I can
tell there's zero evidence whatsoever
that the green higher energy cost agenda
has done anything but harm the
environmental Outlook and we're going to
see a lot more of that making itself
well look at what and look at what it
did with regards to precipitating a war
between Russia and Ukraine that's also
something
and impossible to win war that's also
something that Beggars the Imagine
imagination
far be it for me to give advice to the
NDP but let me let me let me tell you
what they have done they've they've
really cannibalized their own base of
support because the NDP used to be the
party of the of the working person they
used to be the party of Labor they used
to be the the party of the blue-collar
guys and gals and and they're not that
anymore because every single time a
resource project comes up they end up
taking the opposite position they take a
position that makes it more difficult to
get those projects approved they make
and they take the environmental position
which actually sacrifices all of those
Building Trades workers who would be
commissioned to build those pipelines
and build those projects so this is the
this is I think the fundamental Insight
that Doug Ford had is that the that that
is a pool of Voters that are no longer
represented by the left and so he's
reached out his hand and say come and
join the conservative party we want you
to have a good paying job we want you to
take care of your family we want you to
feel secure we want you to to be proud
of your industry and that's what we're
saying as well I I just don't I can't
imagine why anybody in one of those
resource sector jobs one of those blue
color trades I can't imagine why they
would vote for such an extreme green
agenda that's being manifest in the in
the NDP party and and especially with
that partnership with the liberals so I
think that they have created an
opportunity for us as conservatives and
we just have to make sure that we're
addressing that those issues in a in a
meaningful way and I think we are I
think we're beginning to understand that
we've got us we've got to speak more
broadly about about those aspirational
issues it looked like Pierre polio did a
pretty good job of that on the
leadership front in the conservative
campaign and I want to talk to you a
little bit about that strategically
speaking because polio basically
circumvented the Legacy Media and went
directly online to people and I know
that's part of the reason that you're
also graciously agreeing to do this
conversation with me I mean it does look
to me like there's absolutely no reason
and increasingly this is going to be the
case for conservatives and centralist
liberals to talk to the Legacy Media
types at all you just run your own show
and I mean pauliev was producing his own
ads and they were getting like 500 000
views on YouTube which is quite much
much greater than he could possibly hope
for on a legacy platform like CBC curse
curse be its name and so it's possible I
think for conservatives and
traditionalist liberals to take their
message their political message or their
cultural message their philosophical
message directly to people in
conversations exactly like this and to
say look
and I do think it was the case that back
in the 1970s you know the the NDP was a
genuine working-class party because most
of the people who ran it and many of the
people who were members were actually
labor party labor Representatives right
Union types back when the unions were
powerful and many of the leaders
regardless of their
stance with regards to the basics of
free market competition really were for
the working class but as you pointed out
that's all disappeared in the last 10 or
15 years you saw that with Hillary
Clinton I mean she basically abandoned
the working class in the United States
to go with the woke types and that cost
her the election and certainly
contributed to Trump's popularity and so
the conservatives and I think pauliev
did this conservatives could capture I
think not only the working class quite
straightforwardly especially
working-class men but can probably also
capture the Immigrant population because
immigrants are a lot more conservative
in Western countries then the population
at large and the fact that they
generally vote for the liberal left is
really a consequence of egregious errors
that have been made by conservatives in
communicating with immigrant populations
because the message to them should be
look we want you to come here and Thrive
and we basically share your values and
so don't be voting for the for the
handout people because they make false
claims of you know diversity and ethnic
inclusivity it's all a bloody ruse and
that isn't what you came here for
there's a lot of lip service paid I
think on the Progressive side of the
spectrum to reaching out whereas I think
you're very right that the values that
we have in the conservative movement are
really reflective of of newcomers who
who come to Canada I don't want it to
sound slogeneering but I do I do frame
out how we build our Coalition out and
how we describe what it is that we want
to do from a philosophical point of view
on a a range of of six different values
so obviously freedom and you saw you saw
that Pierre palia really talked a lot
about freedom of the individual to make
their own choices get The Gatekeepers
out of the way and just allow people to
make to to have more control over their
lives but there's also family and this
is the other part that I think builds
out our coalition to include social
conservatives is we know that the best
environment for an individual to be able
to thrive is when they're surrounded by
a supportive family so any policies we
can do to support families staying
together thriving helping each other is
going to be something that builds our
movement then there's faith and I I
would say that there's an open hostility
to to Faith on the other side of the
spectrum whereas we Embrace Faith
communities across the the full range
because we know that that adds that
additional layer of support if something
goes wrong our faith communities are
some of the most generous communities
when you look at how they support
members who end up in trouble on top of
that then you I would add Fellowship
because there are some people who are no
longer part of the faith community but
they'll join the rotary club or their
Elks club or their Lions Club and that's
another way that you can build community
and some of the most amazing initiatives
happen in a community at a local level
when they're able to identify an
individual issue and come together and
government stays out of their way and
then on top of that free enterprise it
won't surprise you I was a intern at the
Fraser Institute from years ago and to
me free enterprise genuine free
enterprise where a person with an
entrepreneurial spark is able to get
together the capital and try something
new and have that creative destruction
that happens when you come up with with
something truly transformational to the
economy that's what we've got to nurture
because that is what genuine
entrepreneurship and capitalism is
really all about and then the last one
is philanthropy and we always forget
that that our our biggest supporters of
all of our institutions fundra funders
of hospitals and wings at universities
and all of our charitable organizations
are the people who really did well
through a free enterprise and they feel
like they need to give back to their
community that is the full cycle of what
conservatism is about and I don't know
why we don't talk about all of that
because that to me is a full vision one
of the things that's worth worth
pointing out is you know part of what's
tearing our culture apart at the moment
our battles about identity and the
progressive solution to the problem of
identity which is really the problem of
meaning and purpose in life let's say is
subjective definition I'm whatever I say
I am what I say I am is whatever I feel
I am moment to moment it's it's
intrinsic to me and that's a really
pathological narcissistic and egocentric
Viewpoint and it's doomed to failure and
the reason and I mean this technically
the reason it's doomed to failure is
because
your mental health isn't something you
carry around in your subjectivity
your mental health is in large part a
consequence of being properly and
harmoniously nested in that hierarchy of
Institutions that you just described and
this isn't taught properly to young
people because and young people are
looking for purpose which the left by
the way provides them with right because
it provides them with a mess ionic
Vision you don't know what you're doing
you could be saving the planet right you
could be a rebel who's saving the planet
and that's a hell of a lot better than
nothing but the conservatives can say
look
you need to get married you need to have
a long-term partner because without that
well first of all you're not going to
grow up and second you're going to be
Lonesome and third you're going to need
love and it's like find a partner That's
the basis for a family and then you know
you should probably think about having
some children in a stable monogamous
heterosexual long-term family why
because you're not going to be sane
without that now sometimes you're not
going to be sane with it either but you
know otherwise you're Lonesome and
alienated and juvenile and depressed and
nihilistic and and your life is
pointless and then well you need that
Civic engagement because you need to
contribute to the community and with
regards to faith-based organizations is
the left and the radicals are opposed to
such things but it's not like they don't
have their own faith-based propositions
they just substitute they substitute for
traditional religion idiot rational
religion and it's completely
counterproductive and Preposterous most
of that religion is based on something
like a recounting of the Marxist story
and every time the Marxist religion has
taken the reins of power in any country
whatsoever ever all there was was
genocide and poverty and so that's if
you want an example of a pathological
religion you can certainly point to
Marxism and they they're the young
people that I've been communicating with
around the world are dying to hear a
proper story about identity and if you
say to them look
take on some responsibility have some
entrepreneurial daring establish a
long-term relationship get married have
children engage civically right grow up
and become part of your family your
community your state your Province your
country and and dedicate yourself to a
high-level religious view of the world
then you have an identity you're
embedded in multiple layers and that
actually constitutes psychological
stability and purpose and the
conservatives have done a very bad job
of delineating that vision for young
people but if you do they're
extraordinarily receptive I think you're
very right I think part of the challenge
was that we've had so much social change
over the last 20 years and the
conception of what it meant to have that
strong stable relationship was was very
binary it was one man one woman I think
now that we've broadened out the
understanding that everybody needs a
life made and it doesn't matter whether
that's someone of the same gender or the
opposite gender having a life mate is
what is important and now we've also
broadened out so that uh those who've
who've married in even same-sex
relationships also are developing
families as well and I think that that
has made the conservative movement far
more inclusive than it might have been
historically and you see this all the
time I mean there there is this notion
that
um that that those who have
um uh that that sort of characteristic
from the lgbtq plus Community are
automatically aligned with the
progressives and I can tell you that is
not that is not the case that that we
have uh gay leaders in the conservative
Movement we have gay staff members of
the conservative Movement we actually
have a transgender woman who heads up
our chief Firearms office in Alberta I
don't know why nobody has written that
story because it's a really amazing
story and she's an amazing woman and
that and she has great support from the
Firearms Community because we are able
to CR to have a broad enough uh reach
and Broad enough Coalition that
everybody is invited in and we we we
agree on the core values that we were
talking about we agree on the issues
associated with individual rights and
freedom and Entrepreneurship and family
and community and when you can have that
Common Ground then you can have a very
broad Coalition so I think we had a bit
of a bumpy ride for a couple of of
decades as we were trying to to sort
some of those Traditional Values out but
I I am very proud of where the
conservative movement is today and how
inclusive it is and I want to make sure
that we continue to be that inclusive oh
you wanted to talk a little bit too
about
um your philosophy of government and
social issues from a conservative
Viewpoint and we've talked a fair bit
about energy in the environment and
we've touched now a little bit on social
issues but I'd like you to talk a little
bit more about your your views on social
issues you said the conservatives
generally present themselves at really
fiscally in some sense right we're going
to make government efficient we're going
to cut back taxes we're going to let you
do your own thing and that's a negative
vision and I don't mean negative
emotionally I mean it's
we're here to pair we're here we're here
to pair things back and that's not an
expansive Vision let's say of care in
some sense and I understand why that is
but you talked about some of the ideas
you had we briefly talked about them on
the social front so maybe I could get
you to elaborate a bit on that
I'll tell you because I because I see
Alberta we we've gone from in the 1970s
having 1.5 million population to 4.5
million today we are continuing to
attract people from uh around the
province and around the globe who I I
want to create Alberta's little Bastion
of of freedom and free enterprise uh
amid a bit of a sea of chaos that we're
seeing in North America right now and I
think that that message is causing
people to to look here and want to come
here and so if we're going to continue
growing our population and I think we'll
double if we continue this this um this
attraction over the net by 2050. so if
we're going to double our population it
means we're going to need more teachers
and more nurses and more social workers
and more doctors and more roads built
and more schools built more hospitals
built so so talking about cutting in
that framework doesn't really make much
sense what also doesn't make much sense
I don't think is that this is what
conservatives do is that we spend a lot
of time creating an excellent business
environment to attract investment and
grow the amount of Revenue which is
fantastic that's one of the things that
I think people can reliably count on
conservatives to do but then what we do
is we take that big pot of money and we
hand it to the central planners and say
go deliver stuff we we hire the exact
same people that the Socialists hire
when and somehow we just think oh well
we'll hire better Central planners
without realizing that Central planning
is is the fundamental flaw in how we're
delivering our programs and
conservatives fall victim to this all
the time is that we think oh well if we
just eliminate that layer of government
and centralize we'll eliminate
Administration and will end up
delivering better services and it never
ever happens because the more you
centralize the more you're creating
layers of managers who are disconnected
from delivering those services so you
end up with a very costly system that
gets worse and worse results so so what
I have been I I started on the free
enterprise side as I mentioned with my
internship at the Fraser Institute so
I've always been thinking how do we
apply our free enterprise values to the
the delivery of public programs and if
we were to apply our free enterprise
values then we would say it all be
begins with the individual giving
individual Choice empowering them with
dollars so that they can then go and
purchase the things that they need to
purchase it you would have competition
you would have not only public sector
providers but non-profit providers and
charitable providers and for-profit
providers all competing with each other
to deliver the best service at the
lowest cost you would also make sure
that you we have this bizarre situation
where we give all this money to a
central planner they use it to deliver
Services themselves and then they
evaluate their own performance and say
we're doing such a bang-up job give us
more money and we always do those are
not roles that in any uh Enterprise are
concentrated in in one entity you have
to have a different purchaser and a
different provider and then somebody
else saying evaluating the performance
to see how you're doing and this is the
way that you apply conservative
principles to how you deliver health
care how you deliver seniors care how
you deliver Advanced education how you
deliver K-12 education and that's the
project that I want to to engage and get
started on conservatives normally shy
away from these types of issues and we
normally don't put forward a vision of
how we want to do it differently and
what I observe with the left and they
the left does this very well is that
they will do polling on a particular
issue and find that there's very little
support for it so then they go out and
they Advocate and they get their fellow
Travelers and they write columns and
then they pull again and now the support
is a little bit higher and they keep on
inching up the level of support until
they've got 50 plus one saying yes and
then they act on it whereas
conservatives do the opposite we say oh
we've got this idea let's go out and
pull on it oh people don't like it well
let's put that back on the shelf that is
not what our job is if we want to win
the ideas War I also think that Reliance
on polls is also devastating to
conservatives because conservatives take
a medium to long-term view of things and
pulls samples short-term whim and what
the conservatives need to do I believe
in order to maintain anything even
vaguely traditional which means to
maintain Society itself is to put forth
the kind of vision that you were talking
about today and to and to rely much less
on the hypothetical expertise of
hypothetically expert pullers you know
as a as a clinical and research
psychologist
I know full well that asking people
questions to find out what they think is
way more difficult than it looks you
know if you as a research psychologist
if you want to find out what a group of
people think about any given political
issue that probably takes one dedicated
PhD researcher two years to manage
because you can't just ask the questions
that you think are obvious because they
beg the answer and you're not sampling
anything that has any longevity in terms
of attitude and if you re if you phrase
the questions slightly differently you
can get completely opposite responses
and so conservatives get set back on
their heels when they do opinion polling
and I think they do that very frequently
to abdicate responsibility it's like
well we can't do this because it's in
popular well you know
maybe it's unpopular maybe it's your
responsibility to put forth a coherent
medium to long-term vision and and to
hope that you can communicate it well
enough so that people come on board you
have to tell the right story you have to
tell the right story and you have to
find The Advocates who will help tell
that story for you as well you you
um your audience may not know my history
but I have been in this world of public
policy for 27 years I've been at a think
tank with the Fraser Institute I've done
uh landowner advocacy with the Canadian
property rights Research Institute
business advocacy with a couple of
different business groups I've been in
media in print media television media as
well as radio media I've had my own
podcast and so I've I've seen the and
I've and I own my own business so I've
seen the full spectrum of how you try to
push ideas along and I'll I'll tell you
what I would observe is that the
conservative movement has pretty well
seeded the ground on so many of the
culture shaping institutions that we
have in K-12 education we don't have a
large number number of conservative
libertarian-minded teachers helping to
connect kids with all of the different
ideas that are out there as well as all
of them
completely we don't even we've even
pulled trans education out of most of
our schools so how is the some young
young kid supposed to know he wants to
be an electrician or a plumber or a
welder if he doesn't have access to the
opportunities to try it out so that's
one thing that we've seeded we've also
seated the universities and you know
this probably better than anyone else
how difficult it is to get your research
funded if you happen to have something
Beyond woke views it seems like there's
only one particular type of research
that gets funded these days so our our
universities I don't think are giving us
the support that we need in the
conservative and libertarian movement on
top of that all of our Arts
organizations our filmmakers the
messages that come through all of all of
our our Hollywood and other popular
popular film is almost uniformly
negative to a conservative ideals or
capitalism or Liberty all those you know
there are some some notable exceptions
um and then uh and then of course I
think as well we we haven't cultivated
our friends in in the union movement in
the way that we should have because
increasingly they're having the the same
conservative values that that we're
talking about here and so I feel like so
many of the different forces that shape
society and shape the conversation I
should add media I mean media as well I
remember years ago uh Lydia Milgen who
was a researcher at one of the Ontario
universities but she worked for the
Fraser Institute it's almost like a
mirror image of of how many people in
the media self-describe as being atheist
or agnostic compared to the general
public and that shapes the the kind of
stories that get told so all of the
opinion shaping that is done is done by
and large by by the by the progressive
side of the spectrum even on the uh
advocacy groups we have far more active
advocacy groups on environmental and
social issues from a leftist perspective
than we have from a liberty sharing
conservative perspective so what I'm
talking about the things that I need to
do to try to advance the message but I'm
not going to succeed unless we also have
the backup we need to have the advocacy
groups and the think tanks and the
academics and the universities we need
to be hiring teachers and filmmakers who
are going to tell our stories and I
think that this is a a 20 or 30 year
project because it took 20 or 30 years
to get to the place we are right now
it's going to take 20 or 30 years to get
us to some sort of balance but we've got
to start by recognizing the nature of
the problem we created for ourselves and
starting to undo it so what's your
what's your strategy at the present time
for communicating the ideas that we've
talked about today to albertans you you
can't obviously rely on the centralized
Legacy Media especially given that
they're government funded now which
doesn't exactly help their bias so how
do you how is it that you plan to get
the ideas that you're describing out
there to albertans especially in short
order because as you said you have what
seven months till the election eh is
that it and that's when it has to be
called old yes it does I'm I'm losing a
bit of I had lost a bit of heart in the
Legacy Media as I mentioned I started
there I was um an editorial writer and
columnist at the Calgary Herald
beginning in 1999 and and the and the
Mantra when I was there by my bosses was
that I had to be fair I had to be
accurate and I had to be balanced and
that's all I ask of the Legacy Media is
just go back to the kind of Journalism
that we that we used to do because that
is I think what is alienating
um people when they're when they're
looking at the mainstream media if they
don't see that their view is going to be
presented in a balanced way then they're
going to go to Alternative media sites
and and this is part has led to a number
of alternative media sources some more
credible than others but we're seeing a
polarization now of you so that if
you're going and looking for
confirmation bias and you're on the left
you've got your a handful of left-wing
sources you'll go to if you're looking
for confirmation bias on the right
you'll have your handful of confirmation
bias sources to go to but what really
moves us forward as a society is when
those can meet in a public square or
thrash it out so that we can come to
some common understanding on how we move
forward so I I maintain a great hope
that some of these Legacy Media will
either get back to their original
foundational purpose or that some of the
New Media is going to to develop those
same principles of being fair and
accurate and balanced I think some are
and I think that's very positive so I
will continue to do interviews with the
mainstream media but I do so knowing
that they're sitting and waiting for me
to say the one sentence that they know
that they can light up on Twitter to get
something trending so that they can then
write a follow-up story about how I had
some Gaff that that is that is not
journalism in my view journalism is
here's an issue let's talk to three or
four different sources let's educate
people and analyze and I I would love to
see that return but you are getting some
of that in these long-form interviews on
podcasts you're getting it in some of
the alternative media that has developed
and quite frankly Elon Musk taking over
Twitter I think is going to be a net
positive for Humanity that we are going
to be able to finally have some genuine
balance in the discussion that we
haven't had for the for probably about a
decade so I I'm watching it I will
continue to do my my own um my own
videos and and my my own memes that I
push out on those different platforms
I'll do these kinds of interviews I will
talk to the mainstream media but I'm I
do I do remain very concerned that we
don't have anything approaching any kind
of balance when we're when we're looking
at what we see out there in the Legacy
Media and that's a real problem yeah so
so what's in the immediate future for
you now like both on the poll on the
policy front on the strategy front on
the communications front what do you see
unfolding in front of you in Alberta in
the next seven months well number one
before the end of the year we are going
to make major strides in improving the
health experience of people who are
having to to use an ambulance or appear
in an emergency room at a hospital we
all have studied this to death we know
what the issues are and we just need to
have the political will to act on them
so before the end of the year people
will begin to see some major Improvement
in in that part we'll also start
clearing the surgical backlog because
we'll do the kind of things that I was
describing I've already asked all of our
uh whenever I go to any speech I ask
people to to talk to their doctors and
who are and surgeons who are at local
hospitals to to uh to engage with us on
trying to bring some entrepreneurship
into how we deliver health care so those
are that's going to to be the the most
important thing we also have to address
the affordability issues I mean my I
have an economics professor from
um from University who always told me
that inflation is always an everywhere a
monetary phenomenon and if I knew that
that printing more money would lead to
inflation from the time I was 23 years
old I don't know why it is that the Bank
of Canada and the politicians making the
decisions didn't understand that what
happens so we are now in a position
where I didn't create this problem but
we at the provincial level we have to
solve it we have to make sure that we're
addressing the issues of cost of foods
by supporting our food banks we've got
to address issues of electricity and
Home Heating by providing offsets we've
got to address the issues of cost of
gasoline and Diesel at least for this
temporary period of time until we start
seeing prices stabilize so that's going
to be another big focus of ours another
area is going to be getting telling the
Alberta story on the international stage
in the past our governments have
defaulted and allowed the federal
government to represent us at
conferences like cop 27. we're not doing
that anymore
it was a terrible idea so we're going to
be sending our environment Minister and
it's not to offer a counter message it's
to offer an accurate message that
Alberta is at the lead on addressing
issues of emissions at our companies
have carbon technology and hydrogen and
want to export LNG and we are here to
help so that is you'll see us be a lot
more aggressive and getting our own
message out on the international stage
and we're going to going to keep this
fight going with Ottawa that we we have
to fix this country we we have to get to
a point where each province realizes
that they have sovereign powers in their
own right and they should stop allowing
Ottawa to push them around
Ottawa will always try to take more
money more power more decision making
away from the provincial level and small
provinces maybe felt felt the the
federal government was here to help we
now know they are not and so we are
going to to be working very hard to make
sure that all of our areas of
jurisdiction come back to us at the
provincial level so that's going to be
an ongoing an ongoing project and I'm
just delighted that we've got other
provinces who are thinking very much
along the same lines those those would
be the main things that we work on great
well it'd be very interesting to see a
solid Western Prairie Province Coalition
form itself and start to act more
independently in some sense Within
confines of Canada at the moment I can't
think of anything that would be better
for the for the West certainly for the
country in the long run and also for
people everywhere else given that Canada
has abundant sources of clean cheap
energy and could provide them in the
most politically and economically stable
manner possible right why is that not a
good story to tell everyone in the world
and I guess that's part of what we're
doing today
it's an excellent story to tell the
world and I'll add to it food security
as well I mean I'm very concerned that
you've got the same strange
um don't don't don't build anything
attitude that is now being applied to
our agriculture food producers as well
that you've seen in in Hall and the
Netherlands that they want to
dramatically reduce the amount of
fertilizer use and we see that our
federal government is proposed is
preposterously proposing the same thing
and fortunately you've seen in our
Province here as well as in Saskatchewan
we said no way we're not going to abide
by some arbitrary fertilizer reduction
limits because it means we're going to
reduce the amount of food we can produce
at a time that we've got a global food
security crisis I was just speaking to a
woman who's involved in trying to find
food aid for Africa and she was saying
that the projections for starvation are
in the 40 million person range why are
we not talking about that and all the
things well you know that the planet has
too many people on it anyways and so
there's always that little bug bear
lurking in the background that genocidal
statement so yeah I know well the word
the World Bank already estimates that at
least 220 million people are in a
situation of food insecurity which means
borderline starvation known if the
winter is particularly brutal and maybe
it won't be and good if it isn't then
we're going to see well and those 10
things sorts of things tend to spiral
out of control once they get started so
no it's it's absolutely appalling cheap
energy and cheap food that's good for
the poor it is it's good for the poor
and it's good for the planet too I I
read a a book by Hans Roslyn called
factualness I don't know if you read it
a couple of years ago it's a great book
it is a great book and he talks about
what a great new story we have about the
elevation of people out of poverty that
has taken place over the last number of
decades and it also we also find that
when when women have economic choices
rather than having 10 or 15 children
they end up having two or three children
and so even those who are concerned
about the impact on our resources and
whether or not we can support the
increase in population the the solution
to that is to make sure that we have a
good supply of food a good supply of
energy economic opportunities for men
and women so that so that we can see
everybody elevated to the same standard
of living the the prescriptions of the
extreme greens is the exact opposite and
and it's going to lead to to more
poverty and more Devastation and it's
not going to address some of these
issues of economic opportunities for
women as well so I think that we've got
such a good such a good story to tell
not only here in Alberta but also across
the the country nationally and also a
message for the International Community
and I I can't wait to get out there and
start talking about it
great great well that's a that's a very
useful and uh profound place to end and
so thank you very much for talking to me
today
um I look forward hopefully to meeting
you in January when I'm in Alberta if if
we happen to overlap that would be
lovely and uh I'll put you in touch with
some of the people that I talked about
earlier and
um I appreciate very much your
willingness to talk unscripted in such a
courageous way for an hour and a half so
that everybody can actually hear what
you're thinking instead of being forced
into 15 second carefully uh machine
sound bites and so it's a nice new style
of political discourse you know and I
think it enables people who can actually
think to shine so more power to that as
far as I'm concerned well it's my
pleasure the last thing you want to call
a policy politician is courageous I used
to watch Yes Minister and yes prime
minister and that was something that the
deputy Minister would always say when he
wanted politician not to do something
I'm going to keep on doing this though
so thanks for the conversation today
yeah my pleasure really my pleasure so
thank you to everyone who was watching
and listening and I'm going to continue
my conversation
with the premiere of Alberta Danielle
Smith on The Daily wire plus platform
we'll talk a little bit about the
development of her career which is what
I do for an additional half an hour for
those of you who are interested please
consider subscribing to the Daily wire
plus platform they've professionalized
my podcast made a lot of projects
possible that I wouldn't be otherwise
able to do and also allowed me to
continue doing all the other things I
was doing and so uh consider heading on
over there and and checking out what
they have to offer and thanks again
Premier Smith much appreciated
hello everyone I would encourage you to
continue listening to my conversation
with my guest on dailywireplus.com